2026/a-look-under-the-hood/slides.md, before:

---
titleTemplate: '%s'
author: Thorben Westerhuys, Max Patiiuk
mdc: true
colorSchema: light
---

## ArcGIS Maps SDK for JavaScript:<br>A Look Under the Hood

Max Patiiuk, Thorben Westerhuys

---
is: feedback
---

---

# Agenda

- How Esri's largest monorepo works
  - What is a monorepo and why create it? 📐
  - What tooling is needed? ⚙️
  - Live Demo 🧪
- TODO: topic 2
  - TODO

---
layout: intro
---

# How Esri's largest<br>monorepo works

---

# Definition

> **Repository** - a version-controlled storage space that contains files
> belonging to a project. Commonly hosted on GitHub.

For example,
[Calcite components](https://github.com/Esri/calcite-design-system/tree/main) is
a single GitHub repository.

[![Calcite components repository](./assets/calcite-preview.svg)](https://github.com/Esri/calcite-design-system/tree/main)

---

# 3 code organization patterns

- Monolith - a single large repository for a single project

  ![All code is in a single repository](./assets/monolith.svg)

- Polyrepo - scattered repositories

  ![Code is split across separate repositories](./assets/polyrepo.svg)

- Monorepo - a single repository with code split into packages

  ![Multiple packages in a shared repository](./assets/monorepo.svg)

<!--
Monorepo is a way to organize code on a project where multiple teams need to collaborate.
The simplest way to explain what is a monorepo is to compare it to other code organization patterns.
-->

---

# Monolith

<img src="./assets/monolith.svg" alt="" style="position:absolute;right:50px;top:50px">

Single large repository for a single cohesive product.

Pros:

- The default approach when the project "just grows"
- Less tooling

Cons:

- Scaling bottlenecks (build times, IDE performance)
- High coupling

Esri examples: [esri-leaflet](https://github.com/Esri/esri-leaflet)<br>Community
examples: [TypeScript](https://github.com/microsoft/TypeScript),
[VSCode](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode)

---

# Polyrepo

<img src="./assets/polyrepo.svg" alt="" style="position:absolute;right:50px;top:50px">

Separate, but related repositories.

Pros:

- Low coupling. Each repository can move fast independently.

Cons:

- High duplication. Hard to keep things in sync.
- Local development tricky - juggling many repositories & dev servers.
- PRs and issues split between multiple repositories - disruptive

Esri examples: [EsriDevEvents](https://github.com/EsriDevEvents)<br>Community
examples: [express.js](https://github.com/expressjs) (split across 30
repositories)

---

# Monorepo

<img src="./assets/monorepo.svg" alt="" style="position:absolute;right:50px;top:50px">

Many semi-independent packages under a common roof.​

Pros:​

- Control how much coupling you get.​
- **Consistent coding standards and tooling**.
- **Any tooling and process improvement benefits many teams**.

Cons:​

- More tooling and CI complexity

Esri examples:
[calcite-design-system](https://github.com/Esri/calcite-design-system),
[jsapi-resources](https://github.com/Esri/jsapi-resources)<br>Community
examples: [react](https://github.com/facebook/react),
[vite](https://github.com/vitejs/vite)

---

# Example Monorepo structure

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```yaml
- .github/            # Shared GitHub actions​
- .gitignore          # Single gitignore​
- eslint.config.js    # Single config​
- prettier.config.js  # Single config​
- pnpm-lock.yaml      # Single lock file for the entire monorepo​
- pnpm-workspace.yaml # Monorepo configuration file
- packages/           # ...
```

---

# Example Monorepo structure - packages/

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```yaml
- packages/
  - app/
  - utils/
  - build-utils/
  - configs/
```

---

# Esri's largest monorepo

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```yaml
- packages/
  - map-packages/     # @arcgis/map-components, map-components-react, embeddable-components
  - coding-packages/  # @arcgis/coding-components, Arcade
  - charts-packages/  # @arcgis/charts-components, charts-components-react
  - core-packages/    # @arcgis/core
  - ...
  - docs-packages/    # Private, Internal, and External docs
  - test-packages/    # Test apps for verifying libraries
  - starter-packages/ # New monorepo package starters
  - samples-packages/ # Public sample & template packages
  - support-packages/ # Configs. Tooling
```

---

# Esri's largest monorepo - support-packages/

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```yaml
- packages/
  - support-packages/
    - runtime-utils/          # DOM, Intl, logging
    - build-utils/            # Node.js file system and shell wrappers, package.json utils
    - monorepo-cli/           # Chores automation: linting, building, deploying, releasing
    - lumina-runtime/         # Base class for all web components (uses Lit)
    - lumina-compiler/        # Internal web component framework (uses Vite and TypeScript)
    - eslint-config/
    - prettier-config/
    - typescript-config/
    - storybook-config/
    - codemod/                # @arcgis/codemod: Codemods for migrating between frameworks or updating libraries
    - create-cli/             # @arcgis/create: CLI to bootstrap a new Maps SDK package
```

---
layout: intro
---

# Monorepo tooling

---

# Disclaimer

- This presentation covers our monorepo tooling stack
- Every team has their unique needs, baggage, and preferences​
- No tooling works universally​

Do your own research to find what is right for you

---

# Package manager

Used not just for installing external packages, but for linking monorepo
packages together.​

- npm (default for non-monorepo projects, simple)​
- yarn (most common in monorepos as it supported them first)​
- pnpm (modern, fast, protects against hacked dependencies)

[pnpm](https://pnpm.io/installation) and
[pnpm workspace](https://pnpm.io/workspaces) to get started

---

# Turborepo build cache

- Build package once – reuse, if nothing changed​
- Build cache is shared between CI and all devs​
- Result: `pnpm build:all` "builds" thousands of files in 3s​

[Turborepo Introduction​](https://turborepo.dev/docs)

---
layout: center
---

# [Demo: pnpm + Turborepo](https://github.com/maxpatiiuk/monorepo-template)

---

# [Prettier](https://prettier.io/docs/)

Enforce consistent code formatting.

Recommendation:

- Create a single `prettier.config.js` at the monorepo root and lint changed
  files from monorepo root.

```js
// prettier.config.js
export default {
  singleQuote: true,
  proseWrap: 'always',
};
```

---

# [ESLint](https://eslint.org/docs/latest/use/getting-started)

Enforce consistent monorepo code standard.

Create an eslint-config package that contains:

- Rule configs
- ESLint plugins setup
- Custom monorepo-specific rules

Recommendation:

- single `eslint.config.js` for the entire monorepo (consistency by default)
- run lint from the monorepo root (simpler) for changed files only (faster)

---

# Linting setup

IDE plugin:

- Auto-fix on save & inline error - very convenient
- But, highly dependent on local IDE setup

Pre-commit:

- Quick feedback before the commit goes through
- But, limited performance budget to not slow down committing

CI check:

- Guaranteed & consistent check for all contributors
- But, slow feedback loop

---

# Pre-commit hook

Common tools: [husky](https://www.npmjs.com/package/husky/) together with
[lint-staged](https://github.com/lint-staged/lint-staged).

Example config:

```js
export default {
  '*.{ts,tsx}': ['eslint --fix', 'prettier --write'],
  '*.{css,scss,js,jsx,mjs,cjs,md,mdx,json,yml,yaml,html}': 'prettier --write',
  '*.{ts,tsx,json}': 'pnpm my-cli run-tests-for-changes',
  '*': 'pnpm my-cli detect-large-files',
  './.gitattributes': () => 'git add --renormalize .',
};
```

---

# Bonus

- Use [pnpm catalogs](https://pnpm.io/catalogs) to keep dependency versions
  within monorepo consistent.
- Use [VitePress](http://vitepress.dev/) to build an internal docs site for your
  team/org.
- Use [codemods](https://ts-morph.com/) to automate large-scale refactoring.
- Use [commander](https://www.npmjs.com/package/commander) to create CLI scripts
  for automating monorepo chores.

You can find these, and more suggestions in our
[monorepo-template](https://github.com/maxpatiiuk/monorepo-template?tab=readme-ov-file#what-you-can-add-after-forking-the-template).

---

# Grow incrementally

We mentioned many tools. Don't get intimidated: you only need two to get
started: `pnpm` and `turbo`.

Everything else can be gradually added later as your team grows and you get
familiarity with tools.

---
layout: intro
---

# TODO: topic 2

---
layout: center
---

# Questions?

ArcGIS Maps SDK for JavaScript: Fast Development and Build Tooling

Demos and additional resources available at:
[arcg.is/esri-2025-build-tooling](https://arcg.is/esri-2025-build-tooling)

<!--
TODO: also add qr code link after the first half
<img src="./assets/qr-code.svg" alt="" style="margin: 0 auto">
If you wish to dive deeper, you can find our demos and
additional resources at the URL above, or you can scan the QR code.
-->

---
src: ../.meta/footer.md
---

Commit message:

feat(2026): add qr code + refine slides

2026/a-look-under-the-hood/slides.md, after:

---
titleTemplate: '%s'
author: Thorben Westerhuys, Max Patiiuk
mdc: true
colorSchema: light
---

## ArcGIS Maps SDK for JavaScript:<br>A Look Under the Hood

Max Patiiuk, Thorben Westerhuys

---
is: feedback
---

---

# Agenda

- How Esri's largest JavaScript monorepo works
  - What is a monorepo and why create it? 📐
  - What tooling is needed? ⚙️
  - Live Demo 🧪
- TODO: topic 2
  - TODO

---
layout: intro
---

# How Esri's largest JavaScript <br>monorepo works

---

# Definition

> **Repository** - a version-controlled storage space that contains files
> belonging to a project. Commonly hosted on GitHub.

For example,
[Calcite components](https://github.com/Esri/calcite-design-system/tree/main) is
a single GitHub repository.

[![Calcite components repository](./assets/calcite-preview.svg)](https://github.com/Esri/calcite-design-system/tree/main)

---

# 3 code organization patterns

- Monolith - a single large repository for a single project

  ![All code is in a single repository](./assets/monolith.svg)

- Polyrepo - scattered repositories

  ![Code is split across separate repositories](./assets/polyrepo.svg)

- Monorepo - a single repository with code split into packages

  ![Multiple packages in a shared repository](./assets/monorepo.svg)

<!--
Monorepo is a way to organize code on a project where multiple teams need to collaborate.
The simplest way to explain what is a monorepo is to compare it to other code organization patterns.
-->

---

# Monolith

<img src="./assets/monolith.svg" alt="" style="position:absolute;right:50px;top:50px">

Single large repository for a single cohesive product.

Pros:

- The default approach when the project "just grows"
- Less tooling

Cons:

- Scaling bottlenecks (build times, IDE performance)
- High coupling

Esri examples: [esri-leaflet](https://github.com/Esri/esri-leaflet)<br>Community
examples: [TypeScript](https://github.com/microsoft/TypeScript),
[VSCode](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode)

---

# Polyrepo

<img src="./assets/polyrepo.svg" alt="" style="position:absolute;right:50px;top:50px">

Separate, but related repositories.

Pros:

- Low coupling. Each repository can move fast independently.

Cons:

- High duplication. Hard to keep things in sync.
- Local development tricky - juggling many repositories & dev servers.
- PRs and issues split between multiple repositories - disruptive
- Changes in one repository can break another - not visible till you try to
  update

Esri examples: [EsriDevEvents](https://github.com/EsriDevEvents)<br>Community
examples: [express.js](https://github.com/expressjs) (split across 30
repositories)

---

# Monorepo

<img src="./assets/monorepo.svg" alt="" style="position:absolute;right:50px;top:50px">

Many semi-independent packages under a common roof.​

Pros:​

- Control how much coupling you get.​
- **Consistent coding standards and tooling**.
- **Any tooling and process improvement benefits many teams**.

Cons:​

- More tooling and CI complexity

Esri examples:
[calcite-design-system](https://github.com/Esri/calcite-design-system),
[jsapi-resources](https://github.com/Esri/jsapi-resources)<br>Community
examples: [react](https://github.com/facebook/react),
[vite](https://github.com/vitejs/vite)

---

# Example Monorepo structure

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```yaml
- .github/            # Shared GitHub actions​
- .gitignore          # Single gitignore​
- eslint.config.js    # Single config​
- prettier.config.js  # Single config​
- pnpm-lock.yaml      # Single lock file for the entire monorepo​
- pnpm-workspace.yaml # Monorepo configuration file
- packages/           # ...
```

---

# Example Monorepo structure - packages/

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```yaml
- packages/
  - app/
  - utils/
  - build-utils/
  - configs/
```

---

# Esri's largest monorepo

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```yaml
- packages/
  - map-packages/     # @arcgis/map-components, map-components-react, embeddable-components
  - coding-packages/  # @arcgis/coding-components, Arcade
  - charts-packages/  # @arcgis/charts-components, charts-components-react
  - core-packages/    # @arcgis/core
  - ...
  - docs-packages/    # Private, Internal, and External docs
  - test-packages/    # Test apps for verifying libraries
  - starter-packages/ # New monorepo package starters
  - samples-packages/ # Public sample & template packages
  - support-packages/ # Configs. Tooling
```

---

# Esri's largest monorepo - support-packages/

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```yaml
- packages/
  - support-packages/
    - runtime-utils/          # DOM, Intl, logging
    - build-utils/            # Node.js file system and shell wrappers, package.json utils
    - monorepo-cli/           # Chores automation: linting, building, deploying, releasing
    - lit-runtime/            # Base class for all web components (uses Lit)
    - lit-compiler/           # Internal web component framework (uses Vite and TypeScript)
    - eslint-config/
    - prettier-config/
    - typescript-config/
    - storybook-config/
    - codemod/                # @arcgis/codemod: Codemods for migrating between frameworks or updating libraries
    - create-cli/             # @arcgis/create: CLI to bootstrap a new Maps SDK package
```

---
layout: intro
---

# Monorepo tooling

---

# Disclaimer

- This presentation covers our monorepo tooling stack
- Every team has their unique needs, baggage, and preferences​
- No tooling works universally​

Do your own research to find what is right for you

---

# Package manager

Used not just for installing external packages, but for linking monorepo
packages together.​

- npm (default for non-monorepo projects, simple)​
- yarn (most common in monorepos as it supported them first)​
- pnpm (modern, fast, protects against hacked dependencies)

[pnpm](https://pnpm.io/installation) and
[pnpm workspace](https://pnpm.io/workspaces) to get started

---

# Turborepo build cache

- Build package once – reuse, if nothing changed​
- Build cache is shared between CI and all devs​
- Result: `pnpm build:all` "builds" thousands of files in 1s​

[Turborepo Introduction​](https://turborepo.dev/docs)

---
layout: center
---

# [Demo: pnpm + Turborepo](https://github.com/maxpatiiuk/monorepo-template)

---

# [Prettier](https://prettier.io/docs/)

Enforce consistent code formatting.

Recommendation:

- Create a single `prettier.config.js` at the monorepo root and lint changed
  files from monorepo root.

```js
// prettier.config.js
export default {
  singleQuote: true,
  proseWrap: 'always',
};
```

---

# [ESLint](https://eslint.org/docs/latest/use/getting-started)

Enforce consistent monorepo code standard.

Create an eslint-config package that contains:

- Rule configs
- ESLint plugins setup
- Custom monorepo-specific rules

Recommendation:

- single `eslint.config.js` for the entire monorepo (consistency by default)
- run lint from the monorepo root (simpler) for changed files only (faster)

---

# Linting setup

IDE plugin:

- Auto-fix on save & inline error - very convenient
- But, highly dependent on local IDE setup

Pre-commit:

- Quick feedback before the commit goes through
- But, limited performance budget to not slow down committing

CI check:

- Guaranteed & consistent check for all contributors
- But, slow feedback loop

---

# Pre-commit hook

Common tools: [husky](https://www.npmjs.com/package/husky/) together with
[lint-staged](https://github.com/lint-staged/lint-staged).

Example config:

```js
export default {
  '*.{ts,tsx}': ['eslint --fix', 'prettier --write'],
  '*.{css,scss,js,jsx,mjs,cjs,md,mdx,json,yml,yaml,html}': 'prettier --write',
  '*.{ts,tsx,json}': 'pnpm my-cli run-tests-for-changes',
  '*': 'pnpm my-cli detect-large-files',
  './.gitattributes': () => 'git add --renormalize .',
};
```

---

# Bonus

- Use [pnpm catalogs](https://pnpm.io/catalogs) to keep dependency versions
  within monorepo consistent.
- Use [VitePress](http://vitepress.dev/) to build an internal docs site for your
  team/org.
- Use [codemods](https://ts-morph.com/) to automate large-scale refactoring.
- Use [commander](https://www.npmjs.com/package/commander) to create CLI scripts
  for automating monorepo chores.

You can find these, and **more suggestions** in our
[monorepo-template](https://github.com/maxpatiiuk/monorepo-template?tab=readme-ov-file#what-you-can-add-after-forking-the-template)
👈.

---

# Monorepo template & additional resources

ArcGIS Maps SDK for JavaScript: A Look Under the Hood

Demos and additional resources available at:
[arcg.is/esri-2026-under-the-hood](https://arcg.is/esri-2026-under-the-hood)

<img src="./assets/qr-code.svg" alt="" style="margin: 0 auto">

---

# Grow incrementally

We mentioned many tools. Don't get intimidated: you only need two to get
started: `pnpm` and `turbo`.

Everything else can be gradually added later as your team grows and you get
familiarity with tools.

If you have existing repositories, align lint rules and devops between them to
make move into the monorepo smoother.

---
layout: intro
---

# TODO: topic 2

---
layout: center
---

# Questions?

ArcGIS Maps SDK for JavaScript: A Look Under the Hood

Demos and additional resources available at:
[arcg.is/esri-2026-under-the-hood](https://arcg.is/esri-2026-under-the-hood)

<img src="./assets/qr-code.svg" alt="" style="margin: 0 auto">

<!--
If you wish to dive deeper, you can find our demos and
additional resources at the URL above, or you can scan the QR code.
-->

---
src: ../.meta/footer.md
---
