2026/build-tooling/README.md, before:

# ArcGIS Maps SDK for JavaScript: Fast Development and Build Tooling

Learn how Esri's development teams are leveraging modern tools like Vite to
build fast, dynamic Web GIS applications. With features such as lazy loading,
client-side routing, hot module replacement, and lightning-fast builds, Vite
streamlines the entire development workflow from bundling to deployment. Paired
with Vitest for testing, these tools help ensure that your apps are both
high-performing and production-ready.

When: Wednesday, March 12 | 4:00 PM - 5:00 PM PDT

Where: Smoketree C | Palm Springs Convention Center

Presenters: [Max Payson](https://github.com/mpayson) &
[Max Patiiuk](https://github.com/maxpatiiuk)

Presented at [Esri Developer Summit 2025](https://devtechsummit2025.esri.com/).

[![ArcGIS Maps SDK for JavaScript: Fast Development and Build Tooling header slide](./assets/header-slide.webp)](https://maxpatiiuk.github.io/esri-dev-summit-presentations/2025/build-tooling)

[Slides](https://maxpatiiuk.github.io/esri-dev-summit-presentations/2025/build-tooling)

## Resources

### Vite ⚡

- [Final demo app](./demo/final)
- [Basic demo apo](./demo/1-javascript)
  - Run `npm create vite` to create a new Vite project
- [Documentation](https://vitejs.dev/)
  - [Publishing guide](https://vite.dev/guide/static-deploy)

### React ⚛️

- [Demo app](./demo/2-react)
  - [Get started steps](./demo/2-react/README.md#key-changes-from-1-javascript)
- [Documentation](https://reactjs.org/)

### Calcite Design System 💎

- [Demo app](./demo/3-web-components)
  - [Get started steps](./demo/3-web-components/README.md#key-changes-from-2-react)
- [Documentation](https://developers.arcgis.com/calcite-design-system)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/Esri/calcite-components)
- [Esri Community](https://community.esri.com/t5/calcite-design-system/ct-p/calcite-design-system)
- [Custom Calcite themes](https://esrips.github.io/calcite-theme-editor/#theme)
- [Calcite demo samples](https://github.com/EsriDevEvents/dev-tech-summit-demo-templates)

### ArcGIS Maps SDK for JavaScript 📍

- [Demo app](./demo/final)
  - [Get started steps](./demo/3-web-components/README.md#key-changes-from-2-react)
- [Documentation](https://developers.arcgis.com/javascript)
- [Get started (for NPM)](https://developers.arcgis.com/javascript/latest/get-started-npm/)
- [Maps SDK Resources](https://github.com/Esri/jsapi-resources)
- [React sample app](https://github.com/Esri/jsapi-resources/tree/main/component-samples/map-components/samples/react)

### TypeScript 🦾

- [Demo app](./demo/4-typescript)
  - [Get started steps](./demo/4-typescript/README.md#key-changes-from-3-web-components)
- [Documentation](https://www.typescriptlang.org)
- [Guide to using ArcGIS Maps SDK for JavaScript with TypeScript](https://developers.arcgis.com/javascript/latest/guide/typescript-setup/)
- VS Code extension:
  - [Pretty TypeScript Errors](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=yoavbls.pretty-ts-errors)

### ESLint 🚩

- [Demo app](./demo/5-eslint)
  - [Get started steps](./demo/5-eslint/README.md#key-changes-from-4-typescript)
- [Documentation](https://eslint.org/)
- VS Code extension:
  - [ESLint extension for VS Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=dbaeumer.vscode-eslint)

Commit message:

docs(2026-using-components-2): refresh slides content

2026/build-tooling/README.md, after:

# ArcGIS Maps SDK for JavaScript: Using Vite for Building Fast, Dynamic Web Apps

Learn how Esri's development teams are leveraging modern tools like Vite to
build fast, dynamic Web GIS applications. With features such as lazy loading,
client-side routing, hot module replacement, and lightning-fast builds, Vite
streamlines the entire development workflow from bundling to deployment. Paired
with Vitest for testing, these tools help ensure that your apps are both
high-performing and production-ready.

When: Wednesday, March 12 | 4:00 PM - 5:00 PM PDT

Where: Smoketree C | Palm Springs Convention Center

Presenters: [Max Payson](https://github.com/mpayson) &
[Max Patiiuk](https://github.com/maxpatiiuk)

Presented at [Esri Developer Summit 2025](https://devtechsummit2025.esri.com/).

[![ArcGIS Maps SDK for JavaScript: Fast Development and Build Tooling header slide](./assets/header-slide.webp)](https://maxpatiiuk.github.io/esri-dev-summit-presentations/2025/build-tooling)

[Slides](https://maxpatiiuk.github.io/esri-dev-summit-presentations/2025/build-tooling)

## Resources

### Vite ⚡

- [Final demo app](./demo/final)
- [Basic demo apo](./demo/1-javascript)
  - Run `npm create vite` to create a new Vite project
- [Documentation](https://vitejs.dev/)
  - [Publishing guide](https://vite.dev/guide/static-deploy)

### React ⚛️

- [Demo app](./demo/2-react)
  - [Get started steps](./demo/2-react/README.md#key-changes-from-1-javascript)
- [Documentation](https://reactjs.org/)

### Calcite Design System 💎

- [Demo app](./demo/3-web-components)
  - [Get started steps](./demo/3-web-components/README.md#key-changes-from-2-react)
- [Documentation](https://developers.arcgis.com/calcite-design-system)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/Esri/calcite-components)
- [Esri Community](https://community.esri.com/t5/calcite-design-system/ct-p/calcite-design-system)
- [Custom Calcite themes](https://esrips.github.io/calcite-theme-editor/#theme)
- [Calcite demo samples](https://github.com/EsriDevEvents/dev-tech-summit-demo-templates)

### ArcGIS Maps SDK for JavaScript 📍

- [Demo app](./demo/final)
  - [Get started steps](./demo/3-web-components/README.md#key-changes-from-2-react)
- [Documentation](https://developers.arcgis.com/javascript)
- [Get started (for NPM)](https://developers.arcgis.com/javascript/latest/get-started-npm/)
- [Maps SDK Resources](https://github.com/Esri/jsapi-resources)
- [React sample app](https://github.com/Esri/jsapi-resources/tree/main/component-samples/map-components/samples/react)

### TypeScript 🦾

- [Demo app](./demo/4-typescript)
  - [Get started steps](./demo/4-typescript/README.md#key-changes-from-3-web-components)
- [Documentation](https://www.typescriptlang.org)
- [Guide to using ArcGIS Maps SDK for JavaScript with TypeScript](https://developers.arcgis.com/javascript/latest/guide/typescript-setup/)
- VS Code extension:
  - [Pretty TypeScript Errors](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=yoavbls.pretty-ts-errors)

### ESLint 🚩

- [Demo app](./demo/5-eslint)
  - [Get started steps](./demo/5-eslint/README.md#key-changes-from-4-typescript)
- [Documentation](https://eslint.org/)
- VS Code extension:
  - [ESLint extension for VS Code](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=dbaeumer.vscode-eslint)
